README.md, before:

# WearWatchfaces 2.0 - rewrite

## jetpack / WFF shared project

This project contains watchfaces written with both legacy [jetpack libraries](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/wear-watchface) and newer [WatchFaceFormat](https://developer.android.com/training/wearables/wff).

- legacy watchfaces are available in [`jetpack`](./wear/jetpack)
- WFF based watchfaces are available in [`wff`](./wear/wff)


## TODO:

- [ ] use good practises for android libraries -  https://developer.android.com/studio/projects/android-library
- [ ] allow overriding style defaults per watchface (for example when customization is disabled)
- [ ] make all ic_launcher resources specify `adaptive` icon
- [x] make jimball play [Funkytown](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z6dqIYKIBSU) (maybe even configurable: **never**, **on_touch**, **always**)
- [ ] add jimball gif sources (pixelorama project) and figure out how to manage original sources for WFF based watchfaces
- [ ] add nav controller to [`EditorActivity`](./jetpack/feature/editor/src/main/java/nodomain/pacjo/wear/watchface/feature/editor/ui/activities/EditorActivity.kt) and make every feature it's separate screen with the main HorizontalPager only highlighting the configured feature
- [x] fix hands rotation
- [ ] don't draw seconds hand in ambient
- [ ] enable minification where possible
- [ ] separate jetpack and wff based projects by package name
- [ ] figure out something with `android.service.wallpaper.square_mode` metadata
- [ ] figure out how to share resources between jetpack and wff
- [x] backgrounds should get watch state to be able to react to ambient changes, maybe zonedTimeDate too, context?
- [x] maybe don't require overriding all methods in `WatchFaceRenderer`? (but we could log it)
- [ ] add docs to watchfaces
  - [ ] add missing readmes
  - [ ] add images
  - [ ] standardize format
- [ ] convert BackgroundMusicPlayer to proper feature module
- [ ] allow features to implement multiple (e.g. background can be a background and a taplistener)
- [x] make drawing from WatchFaceRendererImpl WatchFaceLayer aware
- [x] unify Analog and Digital WatchFaceService-s and RendererAdapter-s
- [ ] maybe :jetpack:watchface:base should depend on :jetpack:feature:background?
- [ ] features should be able to opt out of being user-configurable
- [x] make :jetpack:watchfaces:snake use new Grid2d class
- [ ] redo previews
- [ ] move :feature:base and :feature:complications related code to ...watchfaces package in base instead of ...watchfaces.base (utils package maybe too?)
- [ ] maybe :feature:editor should be added automatically if watchface has editable features?
- [ ] update preview in editor if complications change (or anything else happens)
- [ ] introduce InteractiveFeature interface for TapListener
- [ ] introduce ConfigurableFeature interface for feature configuration
  - [ ] though how would that work for background?
- [ ] handle ambient state in DrawableFeatures
- [x] features override `getStyleSettings` two times - can we change this?
- [ ] merge WatchFaceFeature and FeatureFactory once more
- [ ] check if complications could be further simplified
- [ ] maybe don't hardcode font size but use `drawTextFillBounds`
- [ ] clean up HandStyle drawing code
- [ ] add color styles (and make them available for features too)
- [ ] companion app (full watchface) previews don't work (at least when changing hands)
- [x] don't include hands feature by default since we might want to customize available hands
- [ ] static color background options show up as *Color background* in the editor (maybe allow naming?)
- [ ] figure out what :feature:rendering is supposed to be (it's here to prevent a circular dependency issues in some modules)
- [ ] setup koin annotations. In module `build.gradle.kts` add:
  ```kt
  plugins {
    /* ... */
    alias(libs.plugins.ksp)
  }
  
  ksp {
    arg("KOIN_CONFIG_CHECK", "true")
  }

  dependencies {
      api(libs.koin.annotations)
      ksp(libs.koin.ksp.compiler)
  }
  ```
- [ ] handle colors better, allow for manually setting hands and complication colors, deriving from main when not set
- [ ] consider removing empty proguard files from modules
- [x] maybe refactor :background to be :overlay (or based on it)?

Commit message:

(:wear:jetpack): introduce :wear:jetpack:shared
this is a replacement for :wear:jetpack:feature:rendering and will also serve as a place for universal utilities. This also moves some utilities to the :shared module and removed :feature:digital_clock

README.md, after:

# WearWatchfaces 2.0 - rewrite

## jetpack / WFF shared project

This project contains watchfaces written with both legacy [jetpack libraries](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/wear-watchface) and newer [WatchFaceFormat](https://developer.android.com/training/wearables/wff).

- legacy watchfaces are available in [`jetpack`](./wear/jetpack)
- WFF based watchfaces are available in [`wff`](./wear/wff)


## TODO:

- [ ] use good practises for android libraries -  https://developer.android.com/studio/projects/android-library
- [ ] allow overriding style defaults per watchface (for example when customization is disabled)
- [ ] make all ic_launcher resources specify `adaptive` icon
- [x] make jimball play [Funkytown](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z6dqIYKIBSU) (maybe even configurable: **never**, **on_touch**, **always**)
- [ ] add jimball gif sources (pixelorama project) and figure out how to manage original sources for WFF based watchfaces
- [ ] add nav controller to [`EditorActivity`](./jetpack/feature/editor/src/main/java/nodomain/pacjo/wear/watchface/feature/editor/ui/activities/EditorActivity.kt) and make every feature it's separate screen with the main HorizontalPager only highlighting the configured feature
- [x] fix hands rotation
- [ ] don't draw seconds hand in ambient
- [ ] enable minification where possible
- [ ] separate jetpack and wff based projects by package name
- [ ] figure out something with `android.service.wallpaper.square_mode` metadata
- [ ] figure out how to share resources between jetpack and wff
- [x] backgrounds should get watch state to be able to react to ambient changes, maybe zonedTimeDate too, context?
- [x] maybe don't require overriding all methods in `WatchFaceRenderer`? (but we could log it)
- [ ] add docs to watchfaces
  - [ ] add missing readmes
  - [ ] add images
  - [ ] standardize format
- [ ] convert BackgroundMusicPlayer to proper feature module
- [ ] allow features to implement multiple (e.g. background can be a background and a taplistener)
- [x] make drawing from WatchFaceRendererImpl WatchFaceLayer aware
- [x] unify Analog and Digital WatchFaceService-s and RendererAdapter-s
- [ ] maybe :jetpack:watchface:base should depend on :jetpack:feature:background?
- [ ] features should be able to opt out of being user-configurable
- [x] make :jetpack:watchfaces:snake use new Grid2d class
- [ ] redo previews
- [ ] move :feature:base and :feature:complications related code to ...watchfaces package in base instead of ...watchfaces.base (utils package maybe too?)
- [ ] maybe :feature:editor should be added automatically if watchface has editable features?
- [ ] update preview in editor if complications change (or anything else happens)
- [ ] introduce InteractiveFeature interface for TapListener
- [ ] introduce ConfigurableFeature interface for feature configuration
  - [ ] though how would that work for background?
- [ ] handle ambient state in DrawableFeatures
- [x] features override `getStyleSettings` two times - can we change this?
- [ ] merge WatchFaceFeature and FeatureFactory once more
- [ ] check if complications could be further simplified
- [ ] maybe don't hardcode font size but use `drawTextFillBounds`
- [ ] clean up HandStyle drawing code
- [ ] add color styles (and make them available for features too)
- [ ] companion app (full watchface) previews don't work (at least when changing hands)
- [x] don't include hands feature by default since we might want to customize available hands
- [ ] static color background options show up as *Color background* in the editor (maybe allow naming?)
- [x] figure out what :feature:rendering is supposed to be (it's here to prevent a circular dependency issues in some modules)
- [ ] setup koin annotations. In module `build.gradle.kts` add:
  ```kt
  plugins {
    /* ... */
    alias(libs.plugins.ksp)
  }
  
  ksp {
    arg("KOIN_CONFIG_CHECK", "true")
  }

  dependencies {
      api(libs.koin.annotations)
      ksp(libs.koin.ksp.compiler)
  }
  ```
- [ ] handle colors better, allow for manually setting hands and complication colors, deriving from main when not set
- [ ] consider removing empty proguard files from modules
- [x] maybe refactor :background to be :overlay (or based on it)?
- [x] create :jetpack:shared and move :jetpack:feature:rendering there
